in gaza's Old City a medieval mosque has
been reduced to Rubble with only its
ancient minet standing alzer's Jihad Abu
shanab has seen the scale of the
destruction and sent this
report I am standing outside the great
Omari mosque in Gaza City one of the
oldest mosques in the city it has been
destroyed by the Israeli occupation
forces raised to the ground now it's
nothing but debris
I'm going through one of the mosque's
doors to see the scale of Destruction
and the extent of the damage this place
of worship has been reduced to ruins by
Israeli forces the mosque dates back to
the pre-islamic period it stands on the
site of an ancient Philistine temple in
the fifth century a Byzantine church was
built here before it was restored by the
aits in 1260 it was destroyed by the
Mongols and then rebuilt
at the end of the century it was
destroyed by an earthquake but 300 years
later the Ottomans restored the great
mosque and now it has been reduced to
ashes by the Israeli occupation forces
the great Amari mosque was one of the
most prominent historical and religious
landmarks in Gaza it used to house
traditional manuscripts and ancient
parchments it had large Library
containing many precious books there was
also Quran recitation
this is yet another example of the
Israeli occupation forces's gross
violation of international laws and
conventions which afford special
protection to Historic and religious
sites